# Mongo and Mongoose

## nosql vs spl

### Fill in the chart below with five differences between SQL and NoSQL databases:

### SQL

- Called Relational Databases (RDBMS)
- Table based databases
- Have predefined schema
- Vertically scalable
- Uses SQL ( structured query language ) for defining and manipulating the data

### NoSQL

- Called non-relational or distributed database
- Document based, key-value pairs, graph databases or wide-column stores
- Have dynamic schema for unstructured data
- Horizontally scalable
- Queries are focused on collection of documents  

### What kind of data is a good fit for an SQL database?

- Complex query intensive environment

### Give a real world example.

- MySql, Oracle, Sqlite, Postgres and MS-SQL

### What kind of data is a good fit a NoSQL database?

- Hierarchical data storage

### Give a real world example.

- MongoDB, BigTable, Redis, RavenDb, Cassandra, Hbase, Neo4j and CouchDb

### Which type of database is best for hierarchical data storage?

- NoSQL

### Which type of database is best for scalability?

- SQL

### What does SQL stand for?

- Structured Query Language

### What is a relational database?

- A database structured to recognize relations among stored items of information

### What type of structure does a relational database work with?

- Tables

### What is a ‘schema’?

- A collection of database objects like tables, triggers, stored procedures, etc

### What is a NoSQL database?

- Non-tabular databases and store data differently than relational tables

### How does it work?

- Store data in a format other than relational tables

### What is inside of a Mongo database?

- Stores data records as documents

### Which is more flexible - SQL or MongoDB? and why.

- MongoDB

### What is the disadvantage of a NoSQL database?

- Compatibility issues with SQL instructions
