# CRUD

## Status Codes Based On REST Methods

### In your own words, describe what each group of status code represents:

- 100’s = Informational status codes
- 200’s = Success Codes
- 300’s = Redirection Codes
- 400’s = Client Error Codes
- 500’s = Server Error Codes

### What is a status code 202?

- Accepted, tells the client that the request was valid, but its processing will finish sometime in the future

### What is a status code 308?

- Permanent Redirect, tells the client to use another URL to access the resource and not use the current URL anymore

### What code would you use if an update didn’t return data to a client?

- 204 No Content

### What code would you use if a resource used to exist but no longer does?

- 308 Permanent Redirect

### What is the ‘Forbidden’ status code?

- 403

## Build A REST API With Node.js, Express, & MongoDB

### Why do we need to pull our MongoDB database string out of our server and put it into our .env?

- We don't want the information to be public and has sensitive information

### What is middleware?

- Software that lies between an operating system and the applications running on it

### What does app.use(express.json()) do?

- Recognize the incoming Request Object as a JSON Object

### What does the /:id mean in a route?

- Parameter for whatever we pass after the /

### What is the difference beween PUT and PATCH?

- The PUT method uses the request URI to supply a modified version of the requested resource which replaces the original version of the resource, whereas the PATCH method supplies a set of instructions to modify the resource

### How do you make a defalut value in a schema?

````Javascript
const schema = new Schema({
  name: String,
  role: { type: String, default: 'guitarist' }
});
````

### What does a 500 error status code mean?

- Internal Server Error

### What is the difference between a status 200 and a status 201?

- 200 means request was received and understood and is being processed
- 201 means request was successful and has a result and a resource has been created
