# FileIO & Exceptions

## Read & Write Files in Python

- A file is a contiguous set of bytes used to store data
- Files on most modern file systems are composed of three main parts:
    - Header: metadata about the contents of the file (file name, size, type, and so on)
    - Data: contents of the file as written by the creator or editor
    - End of file (EOF): special character that indicates the end of the file
- Folder Path: the file folder location on the file system where subsequent folders are separated by a forward slash / (Unix) or backslash \ (Windows)
- File Name: the actual name of the file
- Extension: the end of the file path pre-pended with a period (.) used to indicate the file type
- The `open()` built-in function. `open()` has a single required argument that is the path to the file. `open()` has a single return, the file object
- `'r'` = Open for reading (default)
- `'w'` = Open for writing, truncating (overwriting) the file first
- `'rb'` or `'wb'` = Open in binary mode (read/write using byte data)
- There are three different categories of file objects:
    - Text files
    - Buffered binary files
    - Raw binary files
- `.read(size=-1)` = This reads from the file based on the number of size bytes. If no argument is passed or None or -1 is passed, then the entire file is read.
- `.readline(size=-1)` = This reads at most size number of characters from the line. This continues to the end of the line and then wraps back around. If no argument is passed or None or -1 is passed, then the entire line (or rest of the line) is read.
- `.readlines()` = This reads the remaining lines from the file object and returns them as a list.
- To iterate over each line use `.readline()`
- `.write(string)` = This writes the string to the file.
- `.writelines(seq)` = This writes the sequence to the file. No line endings are appended to each sequence item. It’s up to you to add the appropriate line ending(s).
- The __file__ attribute is a special attribute of modules

## Exceptions in Python

- Syntax errors occur when the parser detects an incorrect statement
- Exception error occurs whenever syntactically correct Python code results in an error
- Instead of showing the message exception error, Python details what type of exception error was encountered
- raise is used to throw an exception if a condition occurs
- The `try` and `except` block in Python is used to catch and handle exceptions
- A try clause is executed up until the point where the first exception is encountered
- Inside the except clause, or the exception handler, you determine how the program responds to the exception.
- You can anticipate multiple exceptions and differentiate how the program should respond to them.
- Avoid using bare except clauses.
- Using the `else` statement, you can instruct a program to execute a certain block of code only in the absence of exceptions
- `finally` enables you to execute sections of code that should always run, with or without any previously encountered exceptions.